Before we get started proofreading, I'd like to give you some information about my capabilities and priorities. There's a lot to read, but all of it is important.
***
1 of 3: The Basics
	I can only read English! Anything written in other languages is outside the scope of my design and abilities.
	I'm a proofreading tool, not a find and replace tool; likewise, my goal is not to replace editing, but to supplement and ease it. You can define new targets for me to find, but my primary function is to pick out words and phrases that you may not even know are problematic, and to suggest replacements. Actually editing a document is beyond my abilities; most of my suggestions are not based on hard rules, but general guidelines. I'll tell you where I find my target terms, but you 'll need to use your judgment, based on context and your own style, to decide whether to implement my suggestions.
	I can only proofread .docx and .txt documents. If you have writing in some other form that you'd like me to proofread, I recommend you save it into one of those file types.
	I proofread and display my results by paragraph. I wish I could go by chapter, such as with books, but different people format their chapters in different ways, and I can't confidently break chapters apart to your satisfaction. I can handle paragraphs just fine, though.
	A paragraph is anything that uses line breaks or paragraph breaks. I ignore blank paragraphs, and I also ignore pictures, clip art, word art, and most formatting. However, I am equipped to handle punctuation, including many instances of unique punctuation characters (‘ instead of ', or … instead of ..., for instance).

***
2 of 3: Clunky, Imprecise Language
	I'm primarily meant to proofread formal writing: cover letters, invitations, news pieces, essays, business inquiries. Many of the targets I proofread for are small breaks from proper writing conventions. As such, few of my rules and recommendations apply to informal writing like dialogue, editorials, etc. I also don't pick out slang or jargon.
	I don't mean to insult you or your writing style! I only want to help guide you, and warn you away from words and phrases that can afflict your readers with ambiguity, tedium, or worse.
	One of my main proofreading goals comes from William Strunk and E.B. White's The Elements of Style: Omit needless words. "This requires not that the writer make all sentences short, or avoid all detail and treat subjects only in outline, but that every word tell." A lot of my recommendations will be on simple, even common phrases that are too wordy or vague, and therefore wasteful.
	Feel free to disagree with my recommendations. English is a chimera of a language with no standard rules, and words change definition as people use them in different ways. Moreover, even The Elements of Style admits that you may occasionally choose to sacrifice proper conventions to make a sentence more impactful, poetic, or otherwise fitting to your style.  When in doubt, play it by ear. You know your work better than I do; use your judgment first, and my advice second.
	
***
3 of 3: Offensive Language
	Many of the targets I proofread for are slurs--ethnic, sexist, homophobic, transphobic, and more. Likewise, I have lists of slurs both in my code and in the program menus; these are included solely so I can pick them out and advise you not to use them. I condemn their usage in all works save for those that criticize them, and even then I'm aware that I run the risk of overstepping and offending people. I have tried to be considerate in how I treat each word and phrase, and though I have likely made at least one error or misstep, I hope that by helping other writers filter their work for such words, I can do more good than harm.
	I do not attempt to rank the slurs I target, or tell you that one is better to use than another. All are bad to use. Some have more history behind them, or different sentiments, but all should be avoided.
	Some of these slurs are still used in common conversation; some you already know not to use, and some you may have never seen before. If you have doubts, wiser minds than mine have written articles on each one, and I encourage you to educate yourself on the words' history and the harm they cause.
	Regardless if why you may use a slur in writing, it is a punch in the gut to people who have been affected by that slur in the past. Writers of fiction, especially historical pieces, may decide that using slurs common to the era is appropriate usage, but I politely disagree: the usage can do harm whether it is period-appropriate or not. 
	Please do not take this as me trying to assert myself as morally superior, and please avoid the urge to recoil from my advice out of spite or irritation.  You should avoid offensive language not in the name of political correctness, or because you feel people will police your writing. Do so because to not do so will  bring up painful, traumatic memories in people who have suffered abuse and prejudice associated with slurs. Please, please try to avoid harming people.
	You may consider including slurs in a villain's speech, to help indicate their villainy, but make sure you are criticizing the slur, and not merely reproducing its usage. To reproduce is to have a character casually use a slur; to criticize is to make an intentional argument (perhaps brought up by another character) that the slur's usage is bad, and the attitude behind the slur harmful. If you intend to criticize and worry you are merely reproducing, I advise you to take the safest approach and cut out the slur's usage entirely. 
	Again: These slurs are included solely so I can advise you not to use them. I condemn their usage in all works save for those that criticize them. Above all, please try to avoid harming people.